# 体系架构

<Bit/>

VuePress is composed of two parts: a minimalistic static site generator with a Vue-powered theming system, and a default theme optimized for writing technical documentation. It was created to support the documentation needs of Vue's own sub projects.

Each page generated by VuePress has its own pre-rendered static HTML, providing great loading performance and is SEO-friendly. Once the page is loaded, however, Vue takes over the static content and turns it into a full Single-Page Application (SPA). Additional pages are fetched on demand as the user navigates around the site.

## Features

- optimized for technical documentation
- A default theme with:
  - Responsive layout
  - Customizable and 

## Todo

VuePress is still a work in progress. There are a few things that it currently does not support but are planned:

- Plugin support
- Blogging support

Contributions are welcome!

## Why Not ...?

### Nuxt

Nuxt is capable of doing what VuePress does, but it is designed for building applications. VuePress is focused on content-centric static sites and provides features tailored for technical documentation out of the box.

### Docsify / Docute

Both are great projects and also Vue-powered. Except they are both completely runtime-driven and therefore not SEO-friendly. If you don't care about SEO and don't want to mess with installing dependencies, these are still great choices.

### Hexo

Hexo has been serving the Vue docs well - in fact, we are probably still a long way to go from migrating away from it for our main site. The biggest problem is that its theming system is very static and string-based - we really want to leverage Vue for both the layout and the interactivity. Also, Hexo's markdown rendering isn't the most flexible to configure.

### GitBook

We've been using GitBook for most of our sub project docs. The primary problem with GitBook is that its development reload performance is intolerable with a large amount of files. The default theme also has a pretty limiting navigation structure, and the theming system is, again, not Vue based. The team behind GitBook is also more focused on turning it into a commercial product rather than an open-source tool.
